# A temporal differentiation program after birth delineates γδ T cell immunity (Baglioni et al.,)

ABSTRACT
Delineation of gamma delta (γδ) T cells into type 1 interferon(IFN)-γ producing (γδT1) and type 3 interleukin(IL)-17-producing (γδT17) starts in the embryonic thymus. Whether γδ T cells continue to differentiate after thymic exit and during their localization in peripheral tissues is not known. Herein, we provide evidence that intestinal γδT17 and γδT1 cells undergo a dynamic temporal immunological programming from birth to adulthood. Hence, during the first week of life there was strong induction of genes associated with T cell activation and type 3 immunity, while the post-weaning period was dominated by genes related to effector function, type 1 immunity and cytotoxicity. During this period, γδ T cells could protect the neonatal gut from fungal infection. In the adult intestine, γδT17 cells had a distinct phenotype and a type 1 transcriptional and functional immune profile that depended on Tbet. Unlike in the lymph node, intestinal γδT17 cells had evident T cell receptor (TCR) signaling capacity sufficient to induce cytokine production. Finally, we discovered a γδ T cell population in the neonatal human gut that resembles mouse intestinal γδT17 cells. Collectively, our data suggest that γδ T cells continue to mature after they leave the thymus, and upon localization to the gut they undergo through a temporal differentiation program that reshapes type 3 cells into Tbet+ type 1 effectors with heightened TCR activity.

Pre-processed Seurat objects can be downloaded from https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1EWbUZrY9am-fp6OK6hSwn5LkSeahgUv2?usp=drive_link
